---
layout: post
title: Be More Productive By Emulating The Joker Instead of Batman
date: 2016-05-13 20:32
author: Kevin Olega
comments: true
permalink: /joker
categories: [Uncategorized]
---
I used to think that you need to be like Batman to get things done.

Have a billionaire budget.

Get stuff done with the latest high tech gadgets.

Use the best tools for everything.

## Enter the Joker. 

If you've seen the film "The Dark Knight" the Joker accomplished everything on Batman's "mission" to do list more efficiently and EFFECTIVELY than the Batman ever could. 

The Joker eliminated the heads of the major crime families in Gotham. 

The Joker replaced the corrupt Gotham government officials with non corrupt ones by assassinating them.

The Joker restored the "faith in humanity" in the hearts of the citizens of Gotham by putting them in a bad spot and giving them the opportunity as well as the power to carry out their worst fantasies but despite that, they still chose to "do the right thing" at the end.

It's a lot better than "putting fear in the heart of every criminal" wait, Joker accomplishes that too.

## Bad Batman Habits I emulate:

**1. I want to show off**. 

Buying the latest gadgets is more of a statement than a necessity.

It's the equivalent of having a "Batman symbol" on everything I own. 

When I started blogging, I got more done with scratch paper, a USB thumb drive and a rented or borrowed computer. 

Today I own an iPhone, an iPad, a MacBook Pro, a MacBook Air, bluetooth keyboards and so on but despite that, I have a more difficult time getting any writing done because I'm distracted by all the unnecessary features. 

When I learned to cook, I saved up for and bought everything you see in a Gordon Ramsay and Jamie Oliver cooking show.

These days, I use a single pan, and occasionally a knife and just spend one minute making steak or burgers everyday.

**2. I beat around the bush**. 

Instead of just writing and publishing, I read more, I explore techniques, I do a lot of other unnecessary things. 

I kind of imagine that I'm like Batman. 

Batman is the master of almost all known human and alien martial arts, master detective, master businessman, survivalist, ninja, firearm expert that rarely picks up a gun and so on.

Batman is the unbeatable one man army capable of taking anyone out with enough prep time.

This is overkill for one person.

I beat criminals into submission and hope the world will change. 

It won't. 

I just need to do the work that I need to do. 

In my situation, it's writing and publishing my work everyday.

## The Joker's Success Formula:

What are best practices of the Joker that I can emulate in my business and personal life? 

**1. Simplicity**. 

Batman has a high tech suit and a custom made mask and cape. 

Batman also has bat-themed everything.

The Joker uses clown make up for his disguise that you can buy in a drugstore and a standard knife, a gun and a few explosives. 

That's it. 

Don't make things complicated. 

Remember to simplify. 

**2. Improvisation**. 

I often find myself shopping around for the best gear I can use. 

The Joker doesn't have cutting edge gear. 

He'll use any knife lying around that's within reach. 

He'll use a tire iron, a crow bar or any blunt object to smash your face in.

What do you do with your gear? 

Are you also obsessed with upgrading? 

Do you have James Bond level gear but still fail to get things done? 

I encourage you to reconsider. 

Use what you have. 

**3. Consistent action**. 

Instead of a plan to get things perfect like your upgrades the Joker is out there taking action. 

Most of us would execute when everything we need is 100% ready. 

The Joker works with getting 1% done and moves forward to the next step. 

In the movie you see him working and getting things done. 

**4. Persistence**. 

The Batman does his best to stop the Joker in the movie. 

The Joker keeps getting back up. 

The Joker is the most well known Batman villain for this reason. 

The Batman is a result of Bruce Wayne's inability to get over the death of his parents. 

The Joker, simply moves on from his failure and takes the next step in his life. 

**5. Embrace chaos**.

The Joker claims that he doesn't have a plan.

The Joker plays with the plan devised by the Batman or the police and works with it.

The Joker does not care about losing.

The Joker plays and enjoys the game (whatever he is doing).

And maybe thats a lesson in itself.

Maybe the objective of life is to not make everything perfect.

Maybe the purpose of life is not to build your billions, save the people, save the environment, save the animals, save souls and so on.

Maybe it's realizing that we only have one life and that one day it will end.

And as Alan Watts says, not a journey but more like a song that plays and you're free to sit or stand or dance or sing or play around because at one point, the song will end and you'll need to bow out of the room.

## Some practical tips:

> "I just did what I do best. I took your little plan and I turned it on itself. Look what I did to this city with a few drums of gas and a couple of bullets. Hmmm? You know... You know what I've noticed? Nobody panics when things go "according to plan." Even if the plan is horrifying! If, tomorrow, I tell the press that, like, a gang banger will get shot, or a truckload of soldiers will be blown up, nobody panics, because it's all "part of the plan". But when I say that one little old mayor will die, well then everyone loses their minds. Introduce a little anarchy. Upset the established order, and everything becomes chaos. I'm an agent of chaos. Oh, and you know the thing about chaos? It's fair!” - Joker (Dark Knight)

1. Don't obsess over what you can buy to upgrade your gear. 
2. Use what you already have. Are you writing? Use a basic pen or pencil. Are you recording information? Use a paper notebook.
3. Only upgrade if whatever tool that you're using had broken down due to wear and tear of regular use. 
4. Use your creativity instead of money to accomplish your tasks. 
5. Accept that things go wrong and play anyway.

Do you see how useful it is to simplify like the Joker? 

Now stop trying to be Batman and give the Joker's methods a try.