--- 
layout: post 
title: Three S
date: 2018-07-04 07:14
permalink: /3s/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 

I found this extremely small list of words in my notes.

I recall learning this from the time I was listening to a Tony Robbins talk in 2015.

The list goes like this:

**3 s'**

- State
- Strategies
- Stories

---

**Notes:**

Our main goal why we read books and seek the advice of people we look up to is because we want good results.

There are times when we don't have these available.

However, we can make decisions ourselves.

How do you know if you're making a good decision?

This is a vague question because it's too broad and there are so many factors.

If you, however, take into consideration these three elements, it will be a little easier to come up with "smarter next steps."

How do you evaluate if you can expect things to go well or do poorly?

I've used these three words as a lens to inspect current and past decisions and what results I got out of it.

**Identify the State**

What is your current state at the moment?

What is your mental state?

What is your emotional state?

What is your physical state?

Did you get enough sleep?

Are you satisfied with your food intake?

Did you get any exercise?

Do you feel confident, enthusiastic and unstoppable?

> *Trivia: “The word “enthusiasm” comes from the Greek word “entheos” which means the God within. And the happiest, most interesting people are those who have found the secret of maintaining their enthusiasm, that God within.”*


**Strategies**

What is the objective?

What is the strategy?

Where has this strategy worked?

How will this strategy translate to what you are trying to accomplish?

What are the steps?

**Stories**

Every strong belief I posses is represented in a story. No matter how strong it is, it's not truth. It's just a story. Mental images, part memory, part imagination clumsily translated into words. Despite that, stories are extremely powerful.

My story influences my state of mind and my ability to apply my strategy.

My story is 100% how I define events and situations and can be motivating or deflating.

If my story's perspective is negative, or justify results I'm dissatisfied with, it allows me to protect myself from pain, however dependence on this kind of story also prevents me from moving forward because modifying my stories this way kills my hunger, drive and is generally limiting.

I always have an option to rephrase my story in a way that it is empowering by asking myself, how can I rephrase or arrange this in a way that I can move forward?

--- 

You may [also listen to Tony Robbins on this topic here](https://www.tonyrobbins.com/podcasts/3-steps-breakthrough/).