--- 
layout: post 
title: Buy In Activities
date: 2019-06-06 00:48
Tags: [ productivity, blog ]
permalink: /buy-in/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
You have to buy in to play.

### BUY IN ACTIVITIES PART 1

Activities that allow me to do the things that I need to do.

- Avoid Phone = Alpha State (killed most of Dad's business, also an ambition killer)
- Overhead Squat or Air Squats (if you don't have any gear available)
- L-Theanine and/or 5-HTP
- Cold Shower (wakes you up and activates your good ideas)
- Journalling and/or wrtite in the morning (trap your worries and distractions on paper)
- Prayer (summon the power from the Creator)
- Headspace (put the smart you in charge and give the stupid you a break)
- Walk Fluffy (because it makes you a better person overall)

### BUY IN ACTIVITIES PART 2

Activities that allow me the resources to do the things that I want to do.

- 6 hours of work with TAW 
- 2 hours of work for LKC
- Send 2 Job Applications

### BUY IN ACTIVITIES PART 3

Activities that I want to do that are good for me.

- Bike ride
- Drawing
- Blogging
- Prospecting for new clients
- Teaching Mitzi how to sell
- Out of area dates
- CrossFit
- Anime 
- PS Vita

#### BUY IN ACTIVITIES PART 4

Activities that are fun but use up resources and are good for me sparingly and harmful frequently.

- Visit Friends
- Shopping
- Gadgets


### Note about Buy In Activities:

Buy in is a concept I picked up in CrossFit.

I'm copying this definition.

> Something you must complete before proceeding onto the main workout. Can also be called a "cash-in".

> For example, this workout: 5 min AMRAP (as many rounds as possible) of 12 handstand pushups and 20 situps. Buy in of 30 pushups.

> This means you must complete the buy in of 30 pushups before you start the AMRAP.

In my case I merged it to [Stephen Covey's 4 Quadrants of Time Management](https://succeedfeed.com/stephen-covey-4-quadrants-to-be-productive/) making the previous quadrant the "Buy in" for the next level of activities.
