--- 
layout: post 
title: My Crazy Thoughts on Food Choices
date: 2019-08-04 02:40
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /junk/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
If you're a stranger from the internet, this post isn't for you.

I wrote these for people close to me.

So get out of here.

If I gave you this link, it means I care for you.

Sometimes I just don't like my behavior. 

I stay in bed. 

I refuse to sleep early the night before. 

I eat a shit load of junkfood. 

And I generally procrastinate on things that I need to do.

So I get some value having people who appear successful, healthy and disciplined around to explain certain things to me. 

I made a friend who blogs about interesting news and current events. 

And he shared that smoking is a "poor person's" hobby. 

That information allowed me to quit smoking. 

I had no idea that the perception of "negative social status" is enough for me to finally let the bad habit go.

I recently discovered that, sugar triggers some form of depression and anxiety for me and I've been on and off sugar/carbs since September and could tell the difference.

My other friends pulled me toward smoking and drinking and partying all night. 

And I'm 34 now. 

It's an interesting year for me because of the large increase in the number of funeral services that I'm attending.

This is an interesting conversation. 

I'm able to clarify certain decisions that I made that I only felt and never discussed with anyone in detail.

Last year, I watched my father's legs turn purple.

We weren't very close.

But I couldn't refuse him because he asked me to accompany him to the hospital one last time.

His kidneys stopped working.

And his blood turn to poison.

And I was holding his hand when they rushed him out of the ICU.

The sepsis triggered cardiac arrest.

And we always argued about food choices.

The doctors were trying to revive him for 40 minutes.

A couple of months later, I have a family member who had a stroke/brain aneurism.

Spent three months in the hospital.

And fortunately for me I'm no longer trapped in an office and was able to assist.

So whenever I see people being reckless with food choices, I usually have this strong argument in my head of whether to "let it go" or speak my truth.

I usually let it go.

But there are situations, where a person has made enough deposits to my emotional bank account.

Built enough rapport with me that I care enough to fire a comment.

I haven't discovered why.

My dad is an extremely offensive person.

And he taught me that if you care, you should speak the truth.

This is probably a clumsy way of saying it.

If we have enough things in common.

If we had a few good conversations.

If you gave me some form or resource or advice.

If you helped me at anything at one point.

I would remember it.

And value your contribution deeply.

This is clearly an emotionally driven behavior.

I'm sorry it is going to rub you the wrong way.

Please stop eating garbage.

Doughnuts are sugar coated lies.

Sugar is poison.

Plants destroy your kidneys.

Chips are a form of sorcery that Satan gives his followers.

The Biblical God said you should give him the best animal fats and because you are created in the image and likeness of God you should eat animal fats.

The law of equivalent exchange applies. To sustain life, you need to sacrifice life. And since we can't sacrifice other humans for food consumption we will eat other animals of similar size or bigger. Because you need to give life to get life.

If you argue with me that plants are living things too, then I would simply ask you, how many plants can I sacrifice to buy the life of your loved one in exchange.

Biblical text also says we are conquerors, even goes to say more than conquerors. And in the animal kingdom, the only conquerors are the predators. This might sound blasphemy to you but there's nothing in the Bible against eating meat. 

## Veganism is satanic (the devil's diet)

**1 Timothy 4 (paraphrased for levity)**

In later times some will abandon the faith and follow demonic teachings that come through hypocritical liars, with zero conscience. They forbid people to marry and order them to abstain from certain foods, which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and who know the truth. 
For everything God created is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving, because it is consecrated by the word of God and prayer.