--- 
layout: post 
title: On Jordan Peterson's Christianity
date: 2019-06-04 12:36
Tags: [ faith, blog ]
permalink: /jbp-faith/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
---
There's a lot of debate whether Jordan Peterson is a Christian or not.

He insists on not being identified as Christian.

Because what you mean by believe and what you mean by Christ is different from what he means by believe and what he means by Christ.

The other reason why he doesn't answer the question is because the question super simplified.

And the intention of asking the question is that is being asked to just trigger outrage.

I see a lot of Christians insisting starting the conversation about being saved.

I don't think being saved is the goal. It's just a starting point for many people who convert to Christianity but not the main point of Christianity.


Jesus said.

in John 10:10:

Version NIV:

> The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that they may have life, and have it to the full.

Version NASB:

>The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I came that they may have life, and [a]have it abundantly.
[a] John 10:10 Or have abundance

Modern Christians who claim to have the true interpretation focus on the getting saved part.

Modern Christians who preach a prosperity gospel is focused on the prosperity part.

Life is a complex process with many parts.

So when you say life to the full. That's several areas.

And that includes:
1. Getting enough sleep.
2. Eating right.
3. Doing well at your job.
4. Not letting people bully you.
5. Using your intelligence to take care of yourself.
6. Growing where you are planted. (Joseph and Nehemiah reference)
7. Applying the lessons of the stories in the Bible to your life.
8. How to raise your children.
9. How to enjoy life.
10. There's a lot more and I need to get back to work so I'm stopping here.

It's not get saved at all costs.

It's not get rich at all costs.

JBP is talking about a different conversation. 

He's not overtly focusing on get saved. 

He's not super focused on get rich either.

JBP's conversation is about areas of your life that doesn't get any attention because the current focus of the conversation is get saved or get rich.

But that's just me.