--- 
layout: post 
title: Everything in nature has the characteristics of smoke. 
date: 2019-08-08 02:28
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /smoke/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
Everything in nature has the characteristics of smoke. 

I got this quote from Alan Watts.

There's a deeper lesson here.

..."Anytime you voluntarily let up control, in other words cease to cling to yourself, you have an access of power. 

Because you're wasting energy all the time in self defense, trying to manage things, trying to force things to conform to your will. 

The moment you stop doing that, that wasted energy is available. 

And therefore you are in that sense, having that energy available, you are one with the divine principle, you have the energy! 

When you are trying however to act as if you are god, that is to say you don’t trust anybody, you are the dictator, you have to keep everybody in line, you lose the divine energy. 

Because what you are doing is simply defending yourself.

So then the principle is, 'the more you give it away the more it comes back.' 

Now you say, 'I don’t have the courage to give it away, I’m afraid.' 

You can only overcome that by realizing, you better give it away because there is no way holding on to it. 

The meaning of the fact you see that everything is dissolving constantly, that we are all falling apart, we all in the process of constant death...that's the great assistance to you.

That fact that everything is in decay, is your helper, that is allowing you, that you don’t have to let go, because there is nothing to hold on to. 

It’s achieved for you in other words, by the process of nature.

So once you see that you don’t have a prayer, and it’s all washed up, and that you will vanish and leave not a rag behind, and you really get with that, suddenly you find you have the power, this enormous access of energy. 

But its not power that came to you because you grabbed it, it came in entirely the opposite way, and power that comes to you in that opposite way, is power with which you can be trusted." 

~Alan Watts...