--- 
layout: post 
title: Optimize Your Routine
date: 2019-07-21 12:53
Tags: [ list, blog ]
permalink: /routine/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
Building a routine is important.

Failing to build a routine often results in me not leaving my room.

And rotating between endlessly scrolling Facebook, YouTube, and reading different articles.

I'm 34 now.

And that's not very good.

Because I have responsibilities.

If I keep neglecting this, and go with what my body or worse, my mind tells me what to do, I won't be very productive.

And I won't do many things that are useful for me.

When you build a routine, it is important to remember to stick to your routine as long as it serves you.

Every day, you need to accomplish some tasks.

And usually some tasks are repetitive.

Like fixing your bed.

Tidying up your room.

Cooking your food.

Writing a report for your clients.

Reviewing the work of your staff.

And so on.

## Consequence of not having a routine.

If there is no fixed process, you will do whatever you want.

And sometimes you'll find yourself inside the internet's black hole.

So to prevent that we'll need to build some routines.

If you're awake for sixteen hours a day.

You have about one hundred ten minute opportunities to optimize.

And when you get good, you do things more efficiently.

You can possibly cut the time and work on to two hundred five minute activities.

## Notes About Routines

The sequence of the routine is just as important as the actual routine.

When you find something you can improve, test it.

When you have a set routine, execute.

When something doesn't work, make adjustments.

Continue working on this until you're done.

## One Hundred Ten Minute Routines

Morning Routine.

Wake up.

Do ten burpees.

Walk dog.

Fix bed.

Drink Coffee.

Make food.

Workout at home.

Go to the Gym.

Evening routine.

