--- 
layout: post 
title: Frequently Asked Questions
date: 2021-11-05 00:17
Tags: [ faq, tech, tools, skills, basics, English, freelancing, stories, strategies, blog ]
permalink: faq
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
I'm answering the following questions:

### What is minimalism?

Minimalism is a practice that allows you to focus your resources into a specific goal.

### What are you trying to improve?

I'm trying to increase my conscientiousness specifically industriousness.

I'm trying to lower my agreeableness by learning how to negotiate and reject bad offers. 

I'm trying to lower my neuroticism by building systems to make my life better.

### What are your book recommendations?

I love Jordan Peterson's series of books.

I recommend the books of Derek Sivers.

### What apps/software/tools can't you live without? Why?

I love using the text editor. 

I'm practicing how to do better with spreadsheets.

### What's your workspace setup like?

I have a 2015 Macbook Pro that's connected to an external monitor.

I have a 2018 Macbook Air that I bring with me when I go out. 

### What's your best time-saving shortcut/life hack?

Practice saying no.

Build a no page. [I use my "no page" to reject invitations](https://olega.org/n).

### What's your favorite to-do list manager?

I use Things, I also use my text editor.

### Besides your phone and computer, what gadget can't you live without and why?

AirPods and Apple watch.

### What everyday thing are you better at than everyone else? What's your secret?

I feel that I'm better at getting good results with less input. I generally follow the Pareto principle. I try to identify the small number of important things that deliver most of the results.

### What do you listen to while you work?

I listen to Dive by Tycho, Weightless by Marconi Union, and Goldberg Variations "Aria" by Bach. I ocassionally listen to piano version of music from the Love Live anime series.

### What are you currently reading?

I'm slowly reading <a href="https://sive.rs/h">How to Live"</a> by Derek Sivers. 

### Are you more of an introvert or an extrovert?

I'm an introvert with sales training.

### What's your sleep routine like?

I work from home. I tend to sleep immediately after work.

### Fill in the blank: I'd love to see _________ answer these same questions.

I'd love to see Derek Sivers answer these questions.

### What's the best advice you've ever received?

Practice writing. Build a journalling habit. Exercise to keep your brain healthy. Cut out sugar from your life.

### What's the worst advice you've ever received?

Aim to be rich by joining this business.

### What is the book (or books) you’ve given most as a gift, and why? Or what are one to three books that have greatly influenced your life?

How to Stop Worrying and Start Living by Dale Carnegie.

The Four Hour Chef by Tim Ferriss.

Anything You Want by Derek Sivers.

12 Rules for Life by Jordan Peterson

### What purchase of $100 or less has most positively impacted your life in the last six months (or in recent memory)? My readers love specifics like brand and model, where you found it, etc.

I bought a HydroFlask and I drank from it all the time. I've saved about ₱50 everytime I go out. I'm also less likely craving junkfood after I've had some water.

I bought a small bag from SM and it functions as my wallet and cellphone holder.

I started buying paper plates and have cut down the time I spent washing dishes.

### How has a failure, or apparent failure, set you up for later success? Do you have a “favorite failure” of yours?

I like Tony Robbins quote about "not getting what you want will give you your destiny." I've had a lot of failures that have brought me to the next level of whatever it is that I'm trying to do.

Most of my skills were areas that I failed at.

### If you could have a gigantic billboard anywhere with anything on it — metaphorically speaking, getting a message out to millions or billions — what would it say and why? It could be a few words or a paragraph. (If helpful, it can be someone else’s quote: Are there any quotes you think of often or live your life by?)

Focus on the smallest things you can control. Get enough sleep, eat well, exercise, keep your area tidy.

Life is more like a song than a journey. It's more about what you do while the music is playing. You can sing, dance, smile or listen because sooner or later the song is going to end.

### What is one of the best or most worthwhile investments you’ve ever made? (Could be an investment of money, time, energy, etc.)

Learning how to cook.

Learning how to write.

Joining a CrossFit class.

### What is an unusual habit or an absurd thing that you love?

I record a video of myself performing household chores.

### In the last five years, what new belief, behavior, or habit has most improved your life?

Learn how to negotiate, argue and fight. You're going to lose the fruit that you labored for to those who can.

### What advice would you give to a smart, driven college student about to enter the “real world”? What advice should they ignore?

Making money is a separate skill from your primary skill.

Don't aim to be rich. Aim to be useful.

### What are bad recommendations you hear in your profession or area of expertise?

Watch movies to learn a language. This is wrong.

Do more now.

### In the last five years, what have you become better at saying no to (distractions, invitations, etc.)? What new realizations and/or approaches helped? Any other tips?

I'm better at saying no to people offering "opportunities." I direct them to my ["no page"](https://olega.org/n).

### When you feel overwhelmed or unfocused, or have lost your focus temporarily, what do you do? (If helpful: What questions do you ask yourself?)

I take a walk or take a nap.