--- 
layout: post 
title: WAKE UP ROUTINE
date: 2021-04-25 04:38
Tags: [ routine, blog ]
permalink: wake-up 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
## MUSIC

I listen to different songs to help start my mood.

My playlist includes:

1. The intro from the Dexter tv-series.
2. Greatest Journey - Halo soudtrack.
3. Sacrifice by 9mm Parabellum Bullet
4. Skyu Madoshi Shokaku Shiken - From Fairy Tail
5. Natsu's Theme - Fairy Tail
6. Heaven Shaking Event - From Naruto
7. Naruto Theme
8. Newfound Power - Damageplan
9. Fuwa Fuwa Time - K-On.
10. Fantastic Dreamer - Machico
11. Happy Party Train - Aquors
12. Awaken the Power - Saint Aquors Snow

## PODCAST

I listen to Joe Rogan, Freakonomics, Hardcore History, Jocko Willink, Tim Ferriss, and Derek Sivers in the morning.

These shows encourage me to get better and win the day.

## EXERCISE

I generally do the following if I'm in a hurry.

20 Burpees
20 Air Squats
60 Jumping Jacks

I follow a different program if I have more time.

## MEDITATION

I follow the daily meditation of Headspace and meditate for 5-10 minutes.

Please research "Headspace."

## BREATHING EXERCISES

I take 30 full deep breaths.

Please research "Wim Hof Method."

## COLD SHOWER

I usually don't heat water when I shower in the morning.

The shock of the cold splash is usually enough to wake me up.

## WRITING AND PRAYER

I write my thoughts as soon as I wake up.

I trap my worries on paper.

I make final adjustments to the plans of the day.

I review my notes.

I pray about my plans and I start my day.

What's your morning routine?