--- 
layout: post 
title: Long-Term Thinking
date: 2021-07-07 03:27
Tags: [ gamification, blog ]
permalink: lt  
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
We are blind to both short-term and long-term thinking.

We tend to overestimate what we can do short-term and underestimate what we can do long-term.

I'm going to achieve (giant goal) today, this week, this month, in the next six-months, this year.

I usually fail.

I'm trying to be decent at learning this skill in the next five years.

I mostly succeed. 

The big goals with short deadlines tend to get me to freeze up. 

The long term goals with small steps tend to work for me better.

I was playing a game called Summoners War.

One objective is to buy buildings that have an escalating cost.

The buildings cost around 600 points and increase at every successful upgrade.

I get to farm 5 points per attempt.

I usually get 10 chances to farm 5 points.

So one run would get me 50 points.

It would take me about 12 days to accumulate 600 points.

I'll need to win 120 battles against other players.

I'm at the final stage of the first building.

I'll need to save up 840 points.

I'll need to grind for 17 days to upgrade that building.

I'll need to win 170 battle to upgrage.

There are 10 more buildings like that.

It costs about 11,000 points to fully upgrade each building.

So ten buildings is 110,000 points.

It'll take me 22,000 battles to hit that.

It'll take me about 2,200 runs.

If I play every day, it'll take me 2,200 days.

If I play twice a day it'll take me about half the time.

It may take me a long time but I'll reach the end.

Completing these missions allow you to become:

1. More difficult to kill.
2. Cause more damage to your attacks.
3. Move faster.
4. Develop magic damage.

Each fully-upgraded building gives you a 20% boost in one of these areas.

Top players in the game have been playing for years.

I'm just a casual player so I only play every few days.

That's the entire concept.

I feel that I've come across another game formula that applies to real life. 

What if we replace the game and follow the principle to real-world problems.

Here's an idea.

### INCOME GENERATION

Can I sell something and try to earn a specific amount of money in less time?

I earn $10-16 an hour from my freelance work.

I've been asking myself the above question multiple ways.

Can I create a product, sell it for $20 and attempt to earn the same amount of money in less time?

One out of six people that I get to talk to over the phone often buy from me.

I talk to the prospect for ten minutes.

Can I talk to six people daily and make an extra $20 that day.

If I sell one product once a week, I'd make $1,040 at the end of the year.

If I sell one product twice a week, I'd make $2,080 at the end of the year.

If I sell one product five times a week, I'd make $5,200 at the end of the year. 

It's an extra hour of work but I'd accumulate a good amount of money doing so.

### FITNESS AND HEALTH

I used to eat 3 cups of rice a meal.

That's about 9 cups of rice a day.

I eat about 3,285 cups of rice in a year.

I suspect I've eaten 32,850 cups over ten years.

I'm a little older so I eat about two or three cups of rice a day if I'm not on a low-carb diet.

I still accumulate 730-1,100 cups of rice a year.

I've consumed 11,000 cups of rice over 10 years.

This is how I suspect I'll die because of diabetes should I reach old age.

Every day that I've skipped rice seems to accumulate.

I've followed different low-carb diets over the past years and I've consistently lost weight. 

I've also consistently gotten fat when I went back to eating rice and bread.

Think about what you do over time for your health?

In my case, it's removing rice and exercising.

### WRITING INSTRUCTIONS

I'm trying to write instructions for menial tasks that I have to do daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly.

The idea is I'd like to buy the time with money.

I'll eventually have enough instructions to outsource 90% of my time consuming personal obligations.

I've done this for some tasks.

I have sets of instructions in my notes app and forward to delivery people or service providers.

I rarely need to supervise. 

### GOOD HABITS AND LEARNING SKILLS

Once a day is 7,300 sessions over 20 years.

Once a week is 1,040 sessions over 20 years.

Once a month is 249 sessions over 20 years,

You can learn to cook.

You can learn to be organized.

You can learn to write.

You can learn to effectively invest your resources.

One is better than zero.

Bad results in a few years have led me to great results over time.

You just needed to be patient with yourself.

Consistent slow small steps forward.

There's a good reason why the turtle beat the rabbit in the end.